Y'all let them know how much you appreciate them leading us this morning in worship and blessed by them.
Let me invite you, if you've got a Bible, 2 Corinthians chapter 5 is where we find ourselves this morning.
Now, obviously today is a little bit different because of the transition of what's happening in the life of our church family.
So what I wanted to do today really was give you what I would consider a pastor's prayer.
This is my prayer for you.
It's also a prayer that I would encourage you to pray for me as I launch out into a new ministry with the Georgia Baptist Mission Board, but I'm excited today to be able to share this with you and excited just to be able to hopefully bear my heart just a little bit.
So y'all got your Bible say yes.
All right.
So let's stand to our feet if we can.
Saint Corinthians chapter five, we're going to look at verse 10 to begin with.
So the Bible says here, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad.
Now drop down to verse 20 in 2 Corinthians 5.
The Bible says this, therefore we are ambassadors for Christ.
As though God were making an appeal through us, we beg you on behalf of Christ to be reconciled to God.
And then verse 21, probably my favorite verse in the Bible.
God made Jesus who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in Him.
Let's bow together.
Father, this morning we bow our hearts before your Holy Spirit's leading.
We pray that you would take the Word of God and apply it truthfully to our lives.
that you would help us live out what we learned today.
So be glorified and we'll give you praise for it.
And that's in the name of Jesus Christ that we pray and everybody said, Amen, amen.
So you can be seated this morning.
Here's my key question.
What is my prayer for you?
And I want to give you three based upon the three verses that I've just shared with you.
So the very first one is this, I'm praying that you would live thinking of the end.
that you would live with the end actually in your mind.
Now when I talk about the end, I'm literally talking about what Paul spoke of in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10.
Listen to what he says, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad.
Now very quickly, let me kind of unpack some of these words for us.
The word here, we must all, Paul the Apostle is actually writing to believers.
So here he is talking about followers of Jesus Christ who will one day appear, that is, you will be laid open and bare before the Lord Jesus.
Everything that is true about your walk with Jesus Christ will come to light when you stand before Jesus at the judgment seat of Christ.
The word judgment seat here is actually Bima Seat is talking about the reward seat of the Lord Jesus.
What Paul is doing is he's actually borrowing from the Greco-Roman games an imagery that everyone who would have received this letter in that day would have immediately thought of in the Greco-Roman games whenever they would finish the games.
The athletes would stand at the reward seat of the judge, the individual who oversaw all of the games and at the very end gave out awards based upon the individuals
So here's the thing, you and I as followers of Jesus.
As soon as we came to faith in the Lord, we entered into a race of faith.
The Bible says we are to run our race, fixing our eyes upon the Lord Jesus Christ, knowing that we have a great cloud of witnesses who are cheering us on, that we would be faithful.
And whenever you end your race, you're gonna stand before the Lord Jesus Christ and your life will be laid open and be laid bare.
And in that moment, the Lord Jesus Christ is going to examine your race and he is going to repay you.
That's what this idea of recompense is.
He's going to give you awards based upon your faithfulness.
Now, the question is faithfulness to do what?
And the answer is pretty simple.
Jesus gave us a mission.
We are called or y'all wait and say yes about threw up right there.
But anyway, we are called.
We are actually called to take the message of Jesus Christ to go and make disciples.
Somebody remind me where you're everywhere.
That's what we are actually called to do.
So one day when your race is done, you're going to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ and you're going to give an account to the Lord Jesus of how you faithfully executed that call of Jesus upon your life.
You're going to stand before the Lord Jesus, your life laid bare and open.
And one of the things that is going to be examined is whether or not you made disciples.
See, that's a calling upon you.
It's a calling upon me as well.
But you and I are not only called to be faithful in that, but we are also to be called to be faithful in serving using the spiritual gifts that God has given to us.
So one day you'll stand before the Lord Jesus Christ and you will give an account for how you use the gift that He gave to you to help the body of Christ mature and grow.
So I want you to think about this, right?
You one day as a follower of Christ, I one day as a follower of Jesus will stand before Him.
And we will give an account to our faithfulness.
And all of us want to hear those great words.
Well done, my good and faithful servant.
But I've said it many times before I'll say it again today.
I don't believe every believer
is actually going to hear those words because not every believer is being faithful.
Not every believer is involved in the great commission of Jesus.
Not every believer is using the spiritual gifts that God gave them at the moment of their salvation to help the body of Christ mature.
But one day you'll stand and Jesus will look at your life.
And he's going to judge according to what is good, what is bad.
That is what is of value and that which is of no value whatsoever.
Paul the Apostle also writes about this in 1 Corinthians chapter three.
He says, every man's work is going to become evident for the day.
We'll show it because it is to be revealed with fire.
Now the word fire here is not the fires of hell, but instead this is actually the refiners fire of Jesus.
Those things that we invested our lives in that make no difference for eternity will one day be burned up, but the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work.
And here's what the scripture says, if any man's work, which he has built on it remains, he will receive a reward.
In other words, those things that you built upon the foundation of your faith for the glory of Jesus will one day be rewarded by him, your faithfulness
will actually receive a crown from the Lord Jesus Christ.
However, if any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss.
He himself will be saved.
So we know he's writing to believers.
He says, yet so as through the fire.
In other words, the refiners fire of the Lord Jesus Christ will make it evident that some believers will waste their entire Christian life.
They will not be faithful to the Great Commission.
They won't seek to make disciples.
They will not use their spiritual gifts and they will suffer loss.
They will enter into glory, but they will have nothing to show for their lives following Jesus here on the earth.
And so my prayer is that one day when you stand before the Lord Jesus Christ and he sees you, that he will have opportunity to reward you because of your faithfulness to his call upon your life.
That's my prayer for you.
That's also what I'm encouraging to pray for me is that I would be faithful to what God has actually called me to do so that when I stand before Jesus one day, I will receive crowns and I will not suffer loss.
What'd you think about that?
If you were to die today and as a believer, you're going to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, would you be ashamed of your Christian life right now?
Or would you see the judgment, see and run with anticipation?
Because you know you've been giving it your all.
I said, this is what God has called you and I to live like.
We are called to live with this end in mind.
We are called to live thinking about this very last day.
And here's the phenomenal news.
When you study the judgments of the Lord, two major judgments are found in the New Testament, the judgment seat of Christ and the great white throne judgment.
The great white throne judgment is in Revelation chapter 20.
That's an entirely different judgment than the one we just read about.
That's the judgment of unbelievers.
But the judgment seat of Christ is the judgment of believers.
And here's the phenomenal news.
You will not be judged based upon your sin because your sin has already been judged in Jesus on the cross.
Somebody say amen on that?
But you will be judged based upon your service.
And my prayer is that one day you will actually hear Jesus say, well done.
my good and faithful servant.
Live with the end in mind.
Are you seeking to make disciples?
Or do you just show up to church on a weekend?
Are you serving using your spiritual gifts?
Or are you showing up expecting everybody else to take care of you?
Or have you died to yourself and said, Lord, whatever you want me to do, that's what I'll do.
Cause that's what you'll be judged for.
Y'all still out there?
You're like, I cannot wait for this dude to leave.
I hate him already.
I don't like him at all.
I want you to live thinking at the end.
Here's the second one.
Live speaking on behalf of heaven.
I hope you picked up on that.
Notice the text again, verse 20.
We are ambassadors for Christ as though God were making an appeal through us.
We beg you on behalf of Christ to be reconciled to God.
Now notice here, Paul again is right into every single follower of Jesus and he says, we are ambassadors for Christ.
And ambassador is someone who speaks on behalf of another country.
See, every single local church is really an embassy of heaven.
And inside every local church are members who are ambassadors who speak on behalf of heaven to those who live on the earth.
That's your call.
That's my call.
We are called to be ambassadors for Christ.
And here's what God does, because this is phenomenal.
It's as though God Himself were making an appeal through us, begging others.
That means entreating, imploring,
literally encouraging other people on behalf of Christ to be reconciled to God, to come back into harmony with the Lord.
This is what God does when you and I are filled with the spirit.
When the spirit of God has control of your life, when the spirit of God has control of my life, he uses us as his mouthpiece to beg people, listen to that, I love that, beg people to actually come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.
So when you look at this verse, you've got to ask the question, when is the last time you remember that you were begging someone to come to faith in Jesus?
Because when you are filled with the spirit of God, you will always be pointing to Jesus Christ every single time.
What a phenomenal call this is.
What a phenomenal opportunity for both of us, right?
You as well as myself, that we get to speak on behalf of heaven on a regular basis.
And we get to encourage people to come into the family of God through faith in Jesus.
But you know what?
Here's what I've learned.
I think probably many of you probably know this as well.
You've experienced this before perhaps.
And that is one of the primary reasons we choose not to speak to others about Christ is because of fear.
We're afraid.
We're afraid of what others may think or say.
We are paralyzed by this fear.
And as a result, we will not share the gospel with other individuals.
We don't speak on behalf of heaven all because we're a little bit nervous about what's happening.
Well, as I was getting prepared for this, I ran across a podcast that led me to an article which led me to a book where I discovered the seven patterns of fear.
Are y'all with me say yes?
These are patterns of fear.
in this particular work that I was reading that actually paralyze us from doing what we want to do.
Now, I'm going to give you these seven patterns very quickly so I want you to listen closely.
They identify the procrastinator.
Maybe you'll find yourself in some of these.
A procrastinator wants everything to be perfect before action is taken.
That's what a procrastinator is.
Here's a people pleaser, right?
They fear losing friends.
They hesitate to act because of what others might think about them or say about them.
So because of that great fear, they don't move.
They don't do something.
There's the rule follower.
They're paralyzed for fear of doing something wrong.
They're afraid they're going to break the rule.
They're afraid they're going to do something out of order.
And so as a result, they do absolutely nothing.
There's the outcast.
The outcast is most afraid of being rejected.
And then there is also the self-douder.
They're afraid they're not enough.
They're not talented enough.
They're not educated enough.
They're not well spoken enough, right?
So that's why they don't speak on behalf of heaven, all because of being a self-doubt.
Or here's another one, the excuse maker.
They look for any reason why they can't do something.
They make up plenty of excuses to basically justify their inaction.
And then there's the pessimist.
They see hardship as a reason to stop.
Now, are y'all women saying yes?
These are the seven patterns of fear.
Now, when I read this book, this is a secular book.
It's not a Christian book at all.
So what I did is I baptized these.
I said, you know what, these seven patterns of fear really can be baptized.
And we can see that these seven patterns often work their way into our lives and give us a ready, made justification for why we do not speak on behalf of heaven.
So let me kind of give it to you in a statement.
The procrastinator says this, I don't share because my life isn't perfect.
And I'm not a perfect person.
And if I start sharing with others, they're going to see that I'm broken.
I still got some flaws.
And so until I am perfect, I will not speak.
Can I say this to you?
If you're waiting till you're perfect to speak, you will never speak.
You're not going to be perfect this side of glory.
But aren't you glad when you see Jesus, you're going to experience glorification?
God is going to make you as much like Jesus as you possibly can be without becoming God.
Shimon, somebody.
Procrastinator.
Here's the second one.
The people pleaser.
I don't share because I'm afraid I'll lose a friend.
I've heard this one many times, right?
I don't share.
If I share that, I'm afraid they'll walk away from me.
I'm afraid my family will.
People pleaser.
Here's another one.
Rule follower.
I don't share because I'm afraid I won't say the right thing.
So because I'm a little fearful that I may get something out of order, I don't say anything at all.
And then the outcast, I don't share because I'm afraid I'll be rejected.
All right, what if I do that and they turn from me?
I don't want that.
And then here's the other one to self-doubt her.
I don't share because I don't think I know enough, right?
I don't know enough deep theology.
I don't know enough doctrine and as a result, until I get studied up, I don't really feel qualified to say anything about Jesus.
Now that's the fear.
that paralyzes you from being obedient to Jesus Christ.
The excuse maker, I don't share because I don't know and you just insert the excuse, shall we?
Listen to what people do, we come up with all kinds of excuses.
What the preacher will share with somebody?
Well, I won't share because maybe my neighbor down here will do it.
Maybe that deacon will do it.
Maybe there's always an excuse.
Then there's the pessimist.
I don't share because I tried before and it wasn't easy.
Now here's something that I dug as I was looking through this book.
And it was this statement made by Ruth Sokop.
She said this, I realized it was okay to be afraid, but it wasn't okay to allow fear to prevent me from doing what I wanted to do.
So I decided from that day on to do it scared.
That's pretty slick, right?
Now, this is not a Christian book.
I've already told you that, but I baptized it.
Somebody say amen, right?
And here's what I realized.
I realized as a follower of Jesus called to speak on behalf of heaven that there are times we are just flat out going to have to do it scared.
you can't allow fear to cause you to be silent.
And you can't sit around and wait till there is no fear to do something.
Because I'm gonna tell you, as best as I possibly can, there has never been a time in my life when I've shared the gospel with somebody that I wasn't scared to death to do it, every single time.
My heart beats fast, start getting nervous about bringing it up, right?
How am I gonna get into this conversation?
What am I gonna say about Jesus?
What am I gonna think about me?
All of these fear patterns
Begin to try to shape my life.
So what do I have to do?
I got to do it scared.
I got to choose to say, you know what?
I'm not going to allow fear to keep me from being faithful.
And this is what you have to do as well.
Don't allow fear to keep you from being faithful.
You're living with the end in mind.
You are living to speak on behalf of heaven.
And then here's the third statement.
I want to encourage you to live overwhelmed with the gospel.
live overwhelmed with the gospel.
Can I encourage you to preach the gospel to yourself every single day of your life?
Then when you get up in the morning and you have an opportunity to spend time alone with the Lord, just preach the gospel again to yourself.
Remind yourself what Jesus endured to bring you into a relationship with God.
Remind yourself of this, be overwhelmed with the gospel.
And when you are saturated with the gospel, what you're gonna discover is that you are more apt
to share the message of the gospel with those who are around you.
And here's what Paul says.
He wants the church accord to be overwhelmed with the gospel.
So he gives them this statement.
Saint Corinthians 521, he made him who knew no sin to be sinned on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him.
Now, are y'all listening to say yes?
Because I want you to grab ahold of this.
Are y'all paying attention to say yes?
Here it is.
On the cross at Calvary.
through his sacrificial death.
Jesus had imputed into his spiritual bank account, your sin and my sin.
God made him who knew no sin to be sin.
Why did he do this?
So that he could bear in his body the wrath and judgment that you deserve that I deserve.
That Jesus died in our place.
for our sin.
But here's the great news.
When you come to faith in Jesus Christ, you know what happens?
What happens is that God actually imputes into your spiritual bank account the perfect righteousness of Jesus.
Isn't that phenomenal?
Say, well, that doesn't make sense.
How could God put perfect righteousness into a sinners bank account?
That seems absurd.
How much more absurd does it seem?
that God would take your sin and place it on a perfectly righteous man.
And yet he did it.
And he did all of this so that he might bring us into a relationship with him.
He did all of this so that you and I might know him forever.
You've got to be overwhelmed with that.
I've got to be overwhelmed with that.
I've got to remind myself of this and I've got to be willing to share the message of the gospel even when I'm scared to death to do it.
So what I want to do very quickly, I've been doing this over the past several months and maybe you haven't picked up on it.
I've been doing it subliminally.
But I've actually been teaching you how to share the gospel by using four simple words.
So I'm going to give them to you very straight now, right?
So here are the four simple words.
If you'll jot them down, you can write them in the flat leaf of your Bible and these statements that go with these simple words, it's going to help you when you go and share the gospel scared.
The first word is the word accident.
accident.
Here's the statement.
You are not an accident.
You were created by God.
You were created for God.
How simple is that?
There is no person on the planet who is an accident.
Every single person, every single person created by God and for God.
So you're not an accident.
Here's the second word and that's the word abandoned.
Abandoned.
And here's the fact, right?
We have abandoned God.
Now, how have we done that?
We've done that through our sin.
We've all sinned and fallen short of God's perfect standard.
And the wages of our sin is death.
And there is nothing that we can do to get rid of our sin.
We can't be good enough.
We can't be religious enough.
We cannot do anything to wash away our sin.
We are separated from Him.
And while we cannot get to Him, here's the phenomenal news.
And that's the third word, approached.
And here's what happened.
While we couldn't get to God, the Bible teaches us that God approached us in Jesus.
Did he not?
Jesus came born of a virgin to ensure his purity.
He lived a sinless life on your behalf and on my behalf.
And then on the cross at Calvary, he died of death that you deserve and I deserve.
He was buried and then he was gloriously resurrected.
He approached us.
He came to us because we could not get to him, which leads me to the fourth word, and that is accept.
And this is a calling here.
We must accept him by faith.
We've got a turn from our sin place, our trust in the Lord Jesus Christ.
And if you'll have those four words in your heart and in your mind, when you are in a conversation with someone who does not know the Lord, those four words can become lynch pens for the conversation so that you're sharing with another person.
Listen, you're not an accident, but we've all abandoned God, but God has approached us in Jesus and we must accept Him by faith.
What a simple message.
And we've got to learn how to do it.
even when our heart is racing.
We gotta be faithful to do it because one day we're gonna stand before Jesus and give an account to whether or not we were faithful to it.
So what's my prayer for you?
Very simple.
Live thinking of the end.
Live speaking on behalf of heaven.
And then I would say live overwhelmed with the gospel.
So I wanna pray those into our lives now, let's bow.
Father, in the name of Jesus, help us to be faithful to this great call upon our lives
this call to share the message of Jesus Christ, to make disciples, to serve using our spiritual gifts, help us to never abandon that call, but help us to be faithful.
Lord, I pray for Concord and for this awesome church family.
Lord, I ask in the name of Christ that you would help every single one of them to live thinking of the end.
And when they would they stand before you, Lord, I pray they stand before you with great joy in their hearts, not ashamed of their Christian life.
but knowing full well that they have sought to be faithful.
Lord, I pray as well that they would live speaking on behalf of heaven as ambassadors for the sake of the kingdom.
Doing it even while they are scared.
Lord, would you also grant them grace to be overwhelmed with the gospel?
We'll give you glory for how you work in each life and how you use us for your purposes.
And with your heads bowed, your eyes closed, nobody's looking this morning.
But you say, Levi, listen, all of this that you've preached this morning, I've never given my life to Jesus.
I've never genuinely trusted in Him.
Can I encourage you right where you are if you need to give your life to Christ?
You can pray something very simple.
And speaking to the Lord, the Bible says, whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
You might be a guest here this morning.
You might be from out of town.
You might be a long time church goer.
but you know that you've never genuinely trusted Jesus.
You can't point back to a time when you remember giving your life to Christ.
Let me encourage you, right now, today can become that day, the day you gave your heart to Jesus.
So let me encourage you, you can pray in your seat silently.
Just as I pray aloud, just trying to help you just pray something like this.
Just say, Lord, today I admit to you that I'm a sinner, that I cannot save myself.
But I believe Jesus died for me and was resurrected.
And the best way that I know how I'm turning from my sin and putting my trust in you.
Help me live unashamed of who you are.
And help me to walk with you.
With your head bowed, your eyes closed.
Nobody's looking around this morning, but you say, Levi, just pray with you and gave my life to Christ.
Here's what I want you to know.
The first step of obedience is baptism.
We don't do that because we're Baptists.
We do that because the Bible tells us to do it.
It should be baptized as a new believer in Jesus.
You go public with your faith.
You saw that this morning already.
We'd love to set up a time for you to be baptized in the days ahead.
So in a moment, when we stand to our feet, if you've given your heart to Christ, I'm going to invite you to leave the place where you've been seated throughout this hour.
Just come forward.
I'll be here in the front of others as well.
We want to pray for you.
We want to help you along in your walk with Jesus Christ.
We want to set up a time for you to be baptized.
The last hour we had someone come forward.
And I'd love to celebrate with you today.
Or maybe you feel that this is where God wants your family.
Or you as an individual to be a member.
You want to join Concord?
You want to partner with this place to make disciples everywhere?
So if God's calling your family to join or you as an individual to join, I want to invite you to come as well this morning.
Had a family come last hour.
We'd love to celebrate with you as we did with them.
So Lord, as always, we give you the invitation.
We trust that you'll work in it.
And that's in the name of Jesus Christ that we pray.
Amen.
Let's stand to our feet.
And while we sing, you come this morning if God's calling you today.